# README

This file contains instructions for conducting offline verification of digital agent trajectories across models, prompt and scoring templates, test-time scaling methods, trajectory configurations, image annotations, environments, and other variations considered in the paper.

# 1) Python Setup
1. Create a virtual environment using your preferred method.

    ```shell
    # Python venv:
    python3.11 -m venv abias-sgv
    source abias-sgv/bin/activate
    
    # Conda:
    conda create --name abias-sgv python=3.11  
    conda activate abias-sgv
    ```

2. Install required dependencies. From the repository's root:

    ```bash
    pip install -e ".[offline,vwa]"
    ```

# 2) Set up the API keys for model providers.
The code in `llms` supports multiple model providers and engines, including OpenAI, Google, Alibaba, HuggingFace, vllm, and others. Before running experiments, make sure to set up your API keys for the providers you plan to use.

Two options are available:
1. Set the API keys via environment variables. Example:
    ```bash
    export GOOGLE_API_KEY="your-google-api-key"
    export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
    export OPENROUTER_API_KEY="your-openrouter-api-key"
    ```

2. Store keys in a protected json file. If API keys are stored in `llms/api_keys.json`, the code will automatically load them and rotate keys if you have multiple for the same provider. See `llms/api_keys_template.json` for a template.
   - **Note**: be aware of the security risks of storing API keys in files and make sure to add `llms/api_keys.json` to `.gitignore`.
   - See `llms/README.MD` for other instructions and details.

# 3) Download trajectories for offline evaluation
The human and oracle labels for agent trajectories are already included in offline_experiments/gold_scores. To download the corresponding trajectories, follow the instructions below.

### 3.1) Trajectories for VisualWebArena and OSWorld generated by authors
The trajectories are available at this [link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1S8ic6JJ3h-iDucwsstgJJrDfelMILmBr). Download the data to the root directory as `offline_experiments/data`.

### 3.2) AgentRewardBench trajectories
Use the script `agrb/download_data.py` to download the trajectories for VisualWebArena from AgentRewardBench.

### 3.3) Note on trajectories

Trajectories generated by the authors include all tasks in VisualWebArena and OSWorld, except for two VisualWebArena tasks that could not be completed due to API blockages. 

AgentRewardBench trajectories include only a subset of tasks from VisualWebArena and are generally easier to verify due to weaker agents and bugs in the environments. For a reliable assessment of MLLM verification performance, we recommend always including at least the VisualWebArena-lite subset of tasks from our generated trajectories.

# 4) Run MLLM Verification of agent trajectories

The codebase is set up to run MLLM verification for the base verifier and SGV on all trajectories using the `gemini-2.5-flash` model. To evaluate on other models, simply change the `model_fp` and `model_v` lines in the configuration file (see Section 5).

**NOTE:** For VisualWebArena, some actions are URLs pointing to images, which require a running VisualWebArena environment instance. **You can skip Step 1** if you are not evaluating VisualWebArena or if you are comfortable skipping those trajectories (the impact on results is likely negligible).

**TIP:** For VisualWebArena, running experiments on the representative subset `offline_experiments/config/task_lists/vwa_lite.txt` should yield results comparable to running on all tasks, while substantially reducing runtime and cost.

1. Set up VisualWebArena environments by following the instructions in `vwa/README.MD`. 
    After setting up, run the following command to initialize the environments:
    ```bash
    python -m vwa.scripts.environments.start_reset_envs -p 90 all_vwa 
    ```
    **NOTE**: only need to initialize the environments once.

2. Run MLLM verification by using the following command from the repository's root:
```bash
# Detached mode (recommended):
nohup python -u -m offline_experiments.config_run --c offline_experiments/config/experiment_config/evaluate-mllm.py --fp --v > offline_experiments.log 2>&1 & disown

# Foreground mode:
python -m offline_experiments.config_run --c offline_experiments/config/experiment_config/evaluate-mllm.py --fp --v
```

Where:
- `--c`: Path to the configuration file.
- `--fp`: Run SGV first step.
- `--v`: Run the verification step.


This will save MLLM verification outputs in `offline_experiments/results` as follows:
- Conversation files in `.txt` or `.html` format with the trajectory and the model outputs for the first step and verification step.
- `.csv` files with token usage.
- Outputs are separated by environment, model, agent, configuration, and environment domain as follows: 
    - `offline_experiments/results/<env>/<agent_id>/<mllm-id>/<config_name>/<domain>/`.
    - Example: `offline_experiments/results/osw/uitars_50s_apr25/gemini-2.5-flash-zero-random/<auto-generated-config-name>/gimp/`.

The conversation files are used to compute statistics later. Also, the files created in the first-step are reused for verification step for other experiments sharing the same configs for the first step.


# 5) Creating configurations and running experiments for other models and trajectories
The codebase allows evaluation of multiple models, prompt templates, image annotations, etc.

- To create new configurations, use `offline_experiments/config/experiment_config/evaluate-mllm.py` as a template for non-thinking models, or `offline_experiments/config/experiment_config/evaluate-lrm.py` as a template for thinking models. 
- To replicate main results in the paper for all models, simply change the `model_fp` and `model_v` lines to the desired models. See `offline_experiments/config/llm_configs.py` for all model-generation-config aliases.
- For additional configurations:
    - See the templates for detailed comments on options to customize the experiments.
    - `offline_experiments/config/experiment_config/evaluate-mllm-multiprior.py` contains a config example where the first-step responses are generated from 3 distinct models and used to generate the second-step response.
    - In `offline_experiments/config/llm_configs.py`, add new models and generation parameters.
    - In `offline_experiments/config/eval_configs.py`, add new trajectories to evaluate on.
    - Include other prompt templates in `offline_experiments/prompts/prompts_vwa.py`, `offline_experiments/prompts/prompts_osw.py` or`offline_experiments/prompts/common_prompts.py`.

# 6) Parsing results
Use the script `offline_experiments/analysis/compute_stats.py` to parse the MLLM verifier outputs and compute all statistics considered in the paper.

```bash
python -m offline_experiments.analysis.compute_stats
```

This will save model parsed outputs and statistics in each results directory, as well as a consolidated statistics file in `offline_experiments/results/consolidated_stats.csv`.

# 7) Other
For experiments in the appendix involving calibration of MLLM verifier distributions, use the script `offline_experiments/calibration/run_calibration.py`.